---
layout: page
title: project 4
description: a project that detects nematode
img: assets/img/nematode.jpg
importance: 4
category: completed projects
---

Soil-borne plant-parasitic nematodes exist in many soils. Some of them can cause up to 15 to 20 percent
annual yield losses. Walnut has high economic value, and most edible walnuts in the US are produced in the
fertile soils of the California Central Valley. Soil-dwelling nematode parasites are a significant threat, and cause
severe root damage and affect the walnut yields. Early detection of plant-parasitic nematodes is critical to design
management strategies. In this study, we proposed use of a new low-cost proximate radio frequency tridimensional
sensor “Walabot” and machine learning classification algorithms. This pocket-sized device, unlike the remote
sensing tools such as unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), is not limited by flight time and payload capability. It
can work flexibly in the field and provide data information more promptly and accurately than UAVs or satellite.
Walnut leaves from trees of different nematodes infestation levels were placed on this sensor, to test if the Walabot
can detect small changes of the nematode infestation levels. Hypothetically, waveforms generated by different
signals may be useful to estimate the damage caused by nematodes. Scikit-learn classification algorithms, such
as Neural Networks, Random forest, Adam optimizer, and Gaussian processing, were applied for data processing.

<div class="row justify-content-sm-center">
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/nematode_left.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm-6 mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/nematode_right.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    The Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) was used for data visualization, which learned the most critical axes between the classes. The axes were then used to define hyperplane to project the high-dimensional training data into two dimensions, which gained important insight by visually detecting patterns. The x-axis and y-axis had no scale because of hyperplane projection. The nematode infection levels were successfully clustered into four levels. The color bar values 1,2, 3, and 4 represented the four nematode infection levels from 1 to 4 (low to high)

</div>